Welcome back in our previous session we download the data from Kaggle and follow by splitting our data
in our local directory into training as well as validation in the training we have cats and dogs folder
and then also in their validation.
We also have cats and dog folder.
Now the question that you might ask Is that why do we do that.
Why don't we just leave them all in one big giant folder and zip through it.
When you've training your CNN The reason is quite simple.
When you're actually processing images they are quite large.
Each image maybe two megabyte or even up to five megabytes depending on the score quality that you took
the picture in or with.
Now when you actually have two thousand of these pictures and you can quickly see how quickly this boy
actually run now.
Memory.
And of course there's also the training portion the computation portion or the overheads involved it
will run our memory very quickly two thousand pictures is not a lot.
Quite often people work with ten thousand a hundred thousand pictures and you can quickly see that this
is just not gonna work.
You just don't have enough memory to actually process all of these.
So what people have come up with is that they actually organize it into directory structure like this
so that when you actually come around and start training all of your your your training your CNN with
all the data then you have the proper directory structure to actually sample some of the data in batches
instead of trying to A.C. is sorted out within your codes.
Right.
Let's get started with the definition of our CNN.
This is our architecture.
We are using cameras of course now from cameras.
If you look at this we are importing layers from layers we are importing convolution 2D.
We are also importing mechs pulling against 2D flatten and also dense.
We talked about this into the session.
If you know if you find that you're not familiar with them please go back and pull up the notes from
carers.
We are importing the models to actually define our CNN architecture right.
So we instantiating a model is could two models adopt sequential so we're using a sequential model.
Right.
So the first line of code here basically say we are creating a convolution layer and we will for the
Coalition layer we are applying 30 to futures or kernels and it's three by three in terms of the kernel
size and also after that's done the player activation really activation layer.
And also the input shape was defined earlier.
Remember I defined rows and columns at as 128 by 128 and three here basically say is a channel of three
which is our G.B. and then the follow by we are working with a makes pulling.
OK.
The next layer that we're adding is Max pulling two by two.
Let me go back a little bit.
Take a step back.
Previously when we're looking at MLS data is the grayscale hence the channel is 1.
But we're working with color pictures as you saw the picture earlier is in color.
So for that you will have to actually while basically that is color it has to be an G.B..
All right.
So that's why the channel is tree here.
Right.
So we have two layers defined we have a convolution layer at the output of the convolution layer.
There's an activation function being applied to it the next layer will be the max pulling layer and
then we're applying a convolution another convolution this time 64 futures and the each of these shooters
have a dimension of three by three.
Again the output of this we apply in the rail to activation layer and then another Max pulling again
to shrink the size followed by another convolution with 60 for a few to three by three matrix activation
is really again another mixed pooling layer.
Finally we applied the flatten function to convert our two by two matrix into where these treat is is
two by two by how deep our channel is and then we flatten it followed by applying to densely connected
layer of fully connected layer also called dense the first dense layer we apply really two to actually
expedite the so-called processing basically convert or the negative value to zero and then we apply
a sigmoid function because we have a binary decision here it's a cat or dog right that's it that's really
our architecture for the CNN and we are defined or rather we print the model summary out to this screen
here this is a very simple CNN the reason we chosen this is so that we can actually have a reasonable
training timed for for learning purpose I don't want to be babysitting these a year well a day later
if you when you start defining architecture that's quite deep it can take a week two weeks depending
on the hardware that you have and also how much data you have and how deep the architecture recall that
we let's quickly summarize this.
This is a very simple architecture it's not based on anything it's just a very simple competition just
so that we can actually get a really good few policy and an works record that our input image shape
is 128 by 128.
Right.
This is after the Coalition first convolution layer.
The output is now 126 by 126 because we have a three by three and we have 32 because the future is 32
and then followed by a mix pulling layer to reduce the size because this is a mixed pool with two by
two to heights and to work with.
So basically destroyed is too.
So basically half did followed by another convolution there again because it's three by three so you
lose two for the height and with and we apply another 30 to future so that becomes sixty four makes
pulling and on and on it goes right.
So that's really the architecture.
Right.
The next thing of course we need to actually have an optimizer.
So from carers were important optimizer.
This is a binary decision.
So we're using a binary cross entropy and the that we're using our immense prop followed by the measurement
performance measured the matrix is accuracy which is HCC here.
Right.
Having done all that we of course need to compile our image.
We haven't done that yet.
We'll do that a little later.
Sorry.
That's the compile I should just highlight that that that part is the compilation.
OK.
Right.
The next thing that we need to do is do some pre processing with our image recall that we talked about
the neural network requires data or best workspace with data that's between 0 and 1 between minus 1
and 1.
And these images because they're color even grayscale as well.
It will range from 0 2 to 5 5.
So that's why we need to actually reskill them to between 0 and 1.
So first of all we from carers we import pre processing image and specifically what we actually interested
in is in image data generated.
We're splitting our data into training and validation and in terms of the so-called reskilling we're
doing here.
This is the part here which is divided by 2 5 5.
So that is between 0 and 1.
So for the training data we call it train data generation and X underscore train on this call data Gen
we are actually flow flow from directory.
This is directly from Caris library.
It has this function called flow from directory meaning as we need the data.
Retrieved from the directory.
This is really good.
Instead of you having to actually write a full loop a for loop.
This has already been done for you.
So we are extracting the data from the training set folder and the target size is as we defined earlier
128 by 128.
Day 828 rows and 128 columns.
And each time we can draw a batch of 40 samples and let the CNN train on it and the class more defined
here is binary because we are working with binary decision whether it's a cat or dog.
Right so that's really the two core using carer's flow from directory if you are not using from using
carries you basically have to do a full loop to retrieve the number of pictures.
Right.
So we repeat the same with the validation this time round we specify the data folder being data backstroke
backslash validation said again the target size is 128 by 128 batch size 14 class mode is 40.
All right so that's really how we actually defined all of these and carers discover that is four thousand
images and that's for the training that's the output from the train on the score data again here and
found another thousand members five hundred four cards five hundreds of dogs that will be for the validation.
OK.
So the next portion really is to training where you start with the training.
So for here we have epochs equal to 30 so are we allowing our CNN to see the data 30 times all of the
data 30 times.
And in terms of the fitting it's a little bit different from what we used to do we used to just use
fit this time we're using fit generator because we are using the data generated from before which is
flow from directory that image data generator.
Essentially this image data generated does two things.
One is a notice to reskilling part dividing the data to five five.
That's the first part.
Second part is that it from the data directory it draw the the samples for training OK.
So what we have here with providing the training data and which is defined here.
Training training data.
Jane.
Or train that again.
And the steps but epoch is one hundred.
The reason is one hundred is that we need to explain.
Because the problem now is that Karissa does not know when it is.
How do you count one epoch.
We want to do 30 epoch but it doesn't know how many images that we have.
So it does not know.
So we need to define it for Karas.
Remember we're drawing a batch size of 40.
We have 4000 images.
If we draw 40 at a time how many to how long would it take or how many.
You know how many times how many iteration before you use up all the images.
One hundred.
Correct.
That's where the hundreds steps comes in after one hundred steps.
Meaning loops through every time we're drawing 40 then we have finished using all of the training data
at least in the sample training data.
Hence this will be count as one epoch.
This is to let carers know how to actually count epoch and for the epochs.
Is it called the epochs which is 30 here.
Validation is could develop validate again which we created here and the validation steps is equal to
50.
All right.
So this is the actual training.
You notice that the so-called accuracy starts at 55 percent validation is higher and it ended around
98 percent accuracy but validation basically stopped rising plateau around seventy seven to seventy
nine percent.
All right let me run through a few more lines of codes before we look at the result.
Now start history is basically where we actually running this training we store into this variable call
Hage.
This is to allow us to extract a few important values.
One is the accuracy of the training.
The other one is the validation accuracy which is what this first two line is followed by the history
of the loss on training loss and the validation loss.
So we're storing all of these valuable variables so that we can actually plot it later.
Right.
So this line of code basically to allow us to actually draw the x axis the hypoxia basically is defined
by range starting with 1 and the length of the HCC the length of the accuracy which is defined here.
And so if we have run 30 epochs it means that we will have 30 accuracy values.
So literally we are telling the epochs or story in the epochs there will be a range from one all the
way to thirty thirty one thirty here in this case instead of twenty nine so we'd take the length which
is 30 and then plus 1.
Remember python.
I want to generate this this range which is a list and will start with the last value of minus one.
The last value here because it study 1 minus 1 meaning it will stop the number at 30 right we're plotting
this coup using met plot lip plotting the epochs which is the x value followed by the accuracy and blue
dots and we label this training accuracy where plotting the validation accuracy and the access to epochs
the Y will be the validation accuracy and the line will be green and we call this tied to training and
validation accuracy and then plot the legend as well.
So this is the first chart here.
The blue dot as defined here is the training accuracy as you can see the more times that it sees the
data the accuracy improve as it goes but of course when you're actually training on your network or
any machine learning for that matter you are interested in whether it is accurate out of sample in the
test set.
In this case we are not touching the test set.
We just want to validate it before we move on to a test set.
So for now because we're tuning our model so we're interested only to see the validation and you can
see that the validation as I mentioned earlier the plateau.
It is not rising any further.
What that really means is that after about five epoch that's it our model has already learned all the
characteristics or the capacity has already been reached in terms of learning the nuances of the training
data.
So after that anything beyond that is basically all fitting.
All right.
It's not able to predict the pictures as accurate I'll cite of sample using the validation data that
we've created.
The second picture is to plot the lost the first one is accuracy.
The second one is lost again plotting training loss vs. validation loss.
The blue dot will be our training loss the Green Line will be our validation lost.
OK.
So that's the second picture here.
As you can see the vet within in the training lost it continued to drop but the validation loss drop
until around 5th epoch and after that it just plateau.
In fact the area started going up and the reason for that is very simple is because it's all fitting.
That's one.
And it's just not able to generalize.
That's the second reason when it comes to data that has not seen before it's just not able to predict
really is over fitting the training data that's really how you actually run all training on CNN.
It's a very simple model.
It's really quick and allows you to get up to speed very very quickly.
Now one other thing though is that after you finish training you are happy with your model.
What do you do.
Do you actually have to run training every single time.
The simple answer to that is no you don't.
Then the next question is can I save my model.
And I'm sure you know the answer by now is yes you can.
And this is how Kerry's made it really simple.
It's just model dot save within the bracket and a process fee you name you provide a name for your model
we call it cards underscore and underscore dogs don't hedge five so that we can retrieve it later and
start forecasting and infer from our picture whether it is a cat or dog.
Right.
So that's pretty much the end of this lesson on how to train your CNN provided a few more links there
for you to actually get started.
If you want more materials.
Feel free to refer to those and if you can see that there's only a nice coat of cells a little bit more
in terms of the number of line of code but you can see that once you actually play around with this
a little bit more you will get comfortable with it and you realize that cross has made your life very
very easy.
With that I'm going to stop.
Thank you once again for watching.